Improve manual Kubernetes deployment documentation (#5582)
ray-project/ray: doc/source/deploy-on-kubernetes.rst

Deploying on Kubernetes
=======================

.. note::

  The easiest way to run a Ray cluster is by using the built-in autoscaler,
  which has support for running on top of Kubernetes. Please see the `autoscaler
  documentation <autoscaling.html>`__ for details.

.. warning::

  Running Ray on Kubernetes is still a work in progress. If you have a
  suggestion for how to improve them or want to request a missing feature,
  please get in touch using one of the channels in the 
  `Questions or Issues?`_ section below.

This document assumes that you have access to a Kubernetes cluster and have

> ``kubectl`` installed locally and configured to access the cluster.

Reviewer: Can you give a TLDR/overview here?

Creating a Ray Namespace
------------------------

First, create a `Kubernetes Namespace`_ for Ray resources on your cluster. The
following commands will create resources under this Namespace, so if you want
to use a different one than ``ray``, please be sure to also change the
`namespace` fields in the provided ``yaml`` files and anytime you see a ``-n``
flag passed to ``kubectl``.

.. code-block:: shell

  $ kubectl create -f ray/doc/kubernetes/ray-namespace.yaml

Starting a Ray Cluster
----------------------

A Ray cluster consists of a single head node and a set of worker nodes (the
provided ``ray-cluster.yaml`` file will start 3 worker nodes). In the example
Kubernetes configuration, this is implemented as:

> - A ``ray-head`` `Kubernetes Service`_ that enables the worker nodes to discover the head node when they start up.

Reviewer: `they` is vague

- A ``ray-head`` `Kubernetes Deployment`_ that backs the ``ray-head`` Service with a single head node pod (replica).

> - A ``ray-worker`` `Kubernetes Deployment`_ with multiple worker node pods (replicas) that connect to the ``ray-head`` pod using the ``ray-head`` Service..

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- A ``ray-worker`` `Kubernetes Deployment`_ with multiple worker node pods (replicas) that connect to the ``ray-head`` pod using the ``ray-head`` Service.
```

Note that because the head and worker nodes are Deployments, Kubernetes will
automatically restart pods that crash to maintain the correct number of
replicas.

> - If a worker node goes down, a replacement pod will be started and it should join the cluster normally.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- If a worker node goes down, a replacement pod will be started and joined to the cluster.
```

Reviewer: (or put a comma, "and" is a coordinating conjunction)

> - If the head node goes down, it will be restarted and effectively start a new cluster. Worker nodes that were connected to the old head node will crash due to losing connection to the original head node, and will subsequently be restarted and connect to the new head node.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- If the head node goes down, it will be restarted. This will start a new Ray cluster. Worker nodes that were connected to the old head node will crash and will subsequently be restarted and connected to the new head node.
```

Try deploying a cluster with the provided Kubernetes config by running the
following command:

.. code-block:: shell

  $ kubectl apply -f ray/doc/kubernetes/ray-cluster.yaml

> Vrify that the pods are running by running ``kubectl get pods -n ray``. You

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Verify that the pods are running by running ``kubectl get pods -n ray``. You
```

> should see something like the following (you may have to wait up to a few

Reviewer: nit: this line is redundant; if you just show the output below I think it will be implied.

  aren't able to connect. This shouldn't affect the behavior of the cluster.

To change the number of worker nodes in the cluster, change the ``replicas``
field in the worker deployment configuration in that file and then re-apply
the config as follows:

.. code-block:: shell

  # Edit 'ray/doc/kubernetes/ray-cluster.yaml' and change the 'replicas'
  # field under the ray-worker deployment to, e.g., 4.

  # Re-apply the new configuration to the running deployment.
  $ kubectl apply -f ray/doc/kubernetes/ray-cluster.yaml
  service/ray-head unchanged
  deployment.apps/ray-head unchanged
  deployment.apps/ray-worker configured

  # Verify that there are now the correct number of worker pods running.
  $ kubectl -n ray get pods
  NAME                          READY   STATUS    RESTARTS   AGE
  ray-head-5455bb66c9-6bxvz     1/1     Running   0          30s
  ray-worker-5c49b7cc57-c6xs8   1/1     Running   0          25s
  ray-worker-5c49b7cc57-d9m86   1/1     Running   0          25s
  ray-worker-5c49b7cc57-kzk4s   1/1     Running   0          25s
  ray-worker-5c49b7cc57-zzfg2   1/1     Running   0          0s

To validate that the restart behavior is working properly, try killing pods

> checking that they are restarted by Kubernetes:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
and check that they are restarted by Kubernetes:
```

  pod "ray-head-5455bb66c9-6bxvz" deleted

  # Check that a new head pod was started and the worker pods were restarted.
  $ kubectl -n ray get pods
  NAME                          READY   STATUS    RESTARTS   AGE
  ray-head-5455bb66c9-gqzql     1/1     Running   0          0s
  ray-worker-5c49b7cc57-d9m86   1/1     Running   1          50s
  ray-worker-5c49b7cc57-kzk4s   1/1     Running   1          50s
  ray-worker-5c49b7cc57-ypq8x   1/1     Running   1          10s

  # You can even try deleting all of the pods in the Ray namespace and checking
  # that Kubernetes brings the right number back up.
  $ kubectl -n ray delete pods --all
  $ kubectl -n ray get pods
  NAME                          READY   STATUS    RESTARTS   AGE
  ray-head-5455bb66c9-7l6xj     1/1     Running   0          10s
  ray-worker-5c49b7cc57-57tpv   1/1     Running   0          10s
  ray-worker-5c49b7cc57-6m4kp   1/1     Running   0          10s
  ray-worker-5c49b7cc57-jx2w2   1/1     Running   0          10s

Running Ray Programs
--------------------

This section assumes that you have a running Ray cluster (if you don't, please
refer to the section above to get started) and will walk you through three

> different options to run a Ray program on it.

Reviewer: Can you outline the three ways?

Deploying on Kubernetes
=======================

.. note::

  The easiest way to run a Ray cluster is by using the built-in autoscaler,
  which has support for running on top of Kubernetes. Please see the `autoscaler

>   documentation <autoscaling.html>`for details. If you have a use case not

Reviewer: typo

Author: Where is the typo?

>   documentation <autoscaling.html>`for details. If you have a use case not

Reviewer: Maybe take out the "read on" sentence

  supported by the autoscaler or want to run a cluster manually for another
  reason, read on.

.. warning::

  Running Ray on Kubernetes is still a work in progress. If you have a
  suggestion for how to improve them or want to request a missing feature,
  please file an issue on the Ray github repository

>   (https://github.com/ray-project/ray/).

Reviewer: link?
